# API-MessageBus-Integration

This repository showcases a basic implementation of an HTTP API interaction coupled with a message bus system. It demonstrates the seamless integration between HTTP API calls and message passing via a message bus, illustrating a scalable and efficient communication paradigm

# Technologies Used

## Spring Boot

## AWS SQS

## AWS Elastic Beanstalk

---

# Server Application Description

The server application in this repository publishes messages to a publish/subscribe queue at a configurable interval, determined by user input. Here's how it functions:

- **Publishing Interval:** The server publishes a message to the queue every millisecond, as specified by the user.
- **Message Format:** Each message published to the queue and displayed on the server's console follows this structure:

    ```json
    {
        "question": "7"
    }
    ```

    The integer within the message is randomly generated, ranging between 1 and a maximum value. By default, this maximum value is set to 1,000,000.

---

# Client Description

The client application subscribes to the queue. Upon receiving a message, it performs the following tasks:

- **Message Filtering:** If the received message contains an integer larger than 1,000,000, the client drops and ignores the message.
- **Prime Number Calculation:** It extracts the integer from the "question" field and calculates all prime numbers from 1 up to that number.
- **Message Generation:** After calculating the primes, it generates a message structured as follows:

    ```json
    {
        "answer": [2, 3, 5, 7],
        "time_taken": 600
    }
    ```

    - The "answer" field contains an array of prime numbers.
    - The "time_taken" field represents the time taken by the client to generate the answer, measured in milliseconds.
    
- **Output and Remote RPC Call:** The generated message is output to the client's console and is also sent as a POST REST call to a remote RPC endpoint.

---

# Dashboard Application Description

The dashboard application displays the following information:

- **Displayed Information:** The prime numbers generated by the client and the time taken via POST request from the client.
- **Auto-Refresh:** The dashboard auto-refreshes every second to display the latest information fetched from the remote RPC endpoint.
